# footMemory
An android app aimed at promoting environment protection by recording and analyzing carbon footprint.

# Introduction
Every person will generate carbon dioxide and greenhouse gases in their life every day. A carbon footprint is the total amount of greenhouse gases that are generated by our actions. Because of global warming, it is emergent for humans to lead a low carbon life. footMemory application is developed as a simple tool for everyone to calculate, record, and analyze their carbon footprint. In this way, users can find how to lower their carbon footprint every day systematically.


# Techniques
The app is achieved by **Java**, **Sqlite** and **Android Studio**. I built this project based on Android 24, but other apis should also work. 

# How to deploy
First, clone the project into your device
```git clone https://github.com/z1514/footMemory.git```

Then use Android Studio to load the project and build it. 
The Android Studio will build it automatically using gradle.

# Features
- Search for footprint for specific activities.
- Record daily carbon footprint.
- Calculate total footprint everyday.
- Show historical footprint.
- Display visualization charts for recent carbon footprint based on day, week and month.

# TODO
- [x] Set up Android Environment.
- [x] Set up Android VM.
- [x] Build main Activity to manage all of the states.
- [x] Integrate SQLite as a mobile app database.
- [x] Design data model for footprint.
- [x] Implement footprint unit query list in the app.
- [x] Implement calculator of carbon footprint.
- [x] Develop history activity and Java logic to show historical data.
- [x] Integrate MPCharts to visulize historical data for users to show their improvement. 

